# CPEN 212: Haxx II

## Attack V4: **Return Oriented Programming (ROP)**

We want to use code *Gadgets* from existing programs and libraries to hack the program.

``` ARM
0x422850: // gadget
    ldr x0, [sp, 96]
    ldp x29, x30, [sp], 128
    ret

main:
    stp x29, x30, [sp, -16]!
    ... bl foo ...
    ldp x29, x30, [sp], 16
    ret

foo:
    stp x29, x30, [sp, -48]!
    ... bl gets ...
    ldp x29, x30, [sp], 48
    ret
```

Let's run through the code:

1. `main` reserves 16 bytes from the stack
2. Then, we enter `foo`, which reserves 48 bytes from the stack

At this point, we load our txt file, override a bunch of the stack with the address to the gadget. `bl gets` writes the text file to the stack. Subsequently, `foo` returns, then `main` returns, and our hope is that we've rewritten the stack correctly such that when we call `ret` in main, the `lr` in the stack pointer will be the address of the gadget.

3. `gadget` loads the address of `pwn` into the `lr`, then calls return and we're in `pwn`! Attack successful

**ROP** operates differently than normal rogramming:
- Instead of adding desired instructions and subsequent instructions right after...
- We add instructions by pushing our own link registers to return statements.

# CPEN 212: Linking

**Static Linking:**
- Compute all linking at compile time

**Dynamic Linking (Load-Time):**
- Compute all lining at load time

**Dynamic Linking (Run-Time/Plugins)**
- Compute Linking at runtime

## Building a Program

When we actually write programs, we usually end up with a bunch of different files. How then, do all these files connect together? 

When we compile a program in C, we need `header` files for different files. This allows `main` to actually know that these functions exist. Then, we compile each `c` file individually. Finally, we combine them into a single executable binary.

Of course, we *could* just compile all the `.c` files together at once, but this means that any change or bug now affects the entire program instead of a small part. In a way, this is a form of encapsulation.

By compiling seperately and combining at the end, we get the benefits of faster compilation speeds. If we have 1000 files and we modify one, we just recompile one instead of 1000.

