# CPEN 221 Project Reflection | Tian Chen

## What worked well about your team's process? 
Since everyone in my team had some experience develpong software in varying fields (front-end, back-end, etc.), we were all able to quickly find aspects of the project that intrigued us and had some experience writing code for. In addition, we spent a lot of time writing specifications and planning architecture so integrating our individual parts was a smooth and quick experience. Plus, we used github's features to its full advantage, including creating individual branches, tracking bugs and milestones with github issues, and using github actions to automate testing upon commits.

Another thing we commited to was schedules. Apart from the given milestones, we also created our own milestones (such as a date for implementation of our seperate components) to ensure everyone was working at the same pace so that we wouldn't miss major milestones. We also committed to finishing the project a week before the due date-so we would have a week for testing and debugging.

Negating the technical stuff, everyone on the team was also highly dedicated and passionate about what we were doing. We always threw around new ideas on what to expand for the project and oftentimes every individual would spend at least an hour or two a day for the better part of three weeks writing, optimizing, documenting, and testing code. We all shared a very high standard on the results of our work and I think that shows in the final result. It wouldn't be uncommon for us to review each other's work, try to figure out how they wrote something, and provide suggestions on better implementations.

## What did not work well about your team's process?
One drawback of everyone have a speciality is that it could be hard at times to understand each other's code. This was primarily an issue for testing, since if we wanted to do glassbox testing it was imperative everyone writing tests understood the code, which ended up taking a lot of communication to resolve. Another issue we encountered was Windows Linux cross-development. We faced quite a few bugs because of this, such as Windows using CRLF line ending vs. Linux's LF line endings that ended up requiring us to use scripts to convert files based on systems to ensure Docker and Gradle built and ran correctly.

## What tasks and activities did you personally do well?
As the Developer of our parser for course descriptions, it took me a long time to development the regexes for proper parsing of text. Afterwards, I felt like I had a considerably better understanding of grammars and regular expressions. As somewhat of a perfectionist, it was imperative to me that I made our data as accurate as possible, which became quite difficult since the UBC Calendar Website I was scraping for course data wasn't formatted to a standard-making parsing it incredibly difficult.

## What tasks and activities did you personally do poorly? Why do you think you struggled with them? What might might you do to improve in the future?
One thing I definitely personally struggled with is developing a very strict plan for my programs. Although I had specifications for the most important classes and methods, there were a lot of small things missing. If I had to describe it, I write code in stream of conciousness-figuring out the plan as I wrote the code. In hindsight, this wasn't a great decision as my methods definitely were not as short or optimized as they could be. Plus, this only made it more difficult for my teammates to understand my programs. Although this didn't hinder funcitonality in any way, If I had to do it again, I would definitely write a more detailed architecture before I began.

## Does anyone on your team deserve recognition as an MVP?
I felt that everyone in the group put forth considerable effort into developing our project. Overall, everyone was incredibly committed and enthusiastic to delivering the best product possible. However, if I had to pick one person, it would be Finn Bainbridge who wrote most of the front-end. The rest of us weren't experienced with React-JS and he volunteered to write the website. He spent many weeks on developing it, oftentimes forced to stay up late to finish homework he put aside to complete the project. 